Blog Post: 2024-08-11 (#10)
TheNewtonCapstone/blog: _posts/first-milestone.md

```
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step

> ```

Reviewer: Maybe in Heading2?

Author: Im gonna put it as a quotes

> Last Thursday, we took a big step. It was the first tryout of our project. We were filled with emotions, anticipation, and a little bit of dread, all mixed up together. We expected failure, and we weren't disappointed.

Reviewer: Amazing start

### Hardware: A Tough Fit

> We had a CAD design, and the *peeps* recommended laser cutting, but we couldn't get that done. Houssam was ready to throw money at the problem, but we went with 3D printing instead. Ryan sliced the part for printing. It didn't fit, just as we expected. Camille and his friend Alex banged the parts together, hoping they’d stay put.

Reviewer 2: I love this <3

### Firmware: The Struggle
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb555886-e2ff-465c-b662-a1af762f2362)

[insert boring explanation of what the firmware is supposed to do]
The goal was to get our setup running the model. 
I spent days trying to establish a serial connection between a micro-ROS agent and the rest of the system. 
A waste of time, honestly.(a post coming about that )

Then came the next step: installing the ONNX runtime environment. ONNX is what you need to run the models. 
The jetson had some issues building the environment—of course, it did. 
We never figured out exactly what was wrong, but [Dusty-nv](https://github.com/dusty-nv/jetson-containers)  got us through it.

> Once we got the environment up, we were ready to run any ONNX model we wanted. The final hurdle was getting the communication right. Just a heads-up: if you ever work with micro-ROS, think hard about memory management. It’s a pain you don’t want.

Reviewer: Might be useful to explain it in another post, what do you think?

Author: You mean there is too much technical explanation?

Reviewer 2: I think its not too technical. It would be nice to have a more in depth explanation in another post. Let them know we "know" what we are doing lol

Reviewer: Yeah!

We never figured out exactly what was wrong, but [Dusty-nv](https://github.com/dusty-nv/jetson-containers)  got us through it.

Once we got the environment up, we were ready to run any ONNX model we wanted. The final hurdle was getting the communication right. Just a heads-up: if you ever work with micro-ROS, think hard about memory management. It’s a pain you don’t want.

### Software: The Ideal Environment

> This is where the sky is blue and the sun is shining... for now. Since we had a working model which could balance itself in the simulation, we decided our next move would be to try to mimic real-life in isaac sim as close as possible. Houssam took care of domain randomization while Augusto was using perlin noise terrain generation for the terrain randomization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where the sky is blue and the sun is shining... for now. Since we had a working model which could balance itself in a flat simulated environment, we decided our next move would be to try to mimic real-life in Isaac Sim as closely as possible. Houssam took care of domain randomization while Augusto used perlin noise for procedural terrain generation. 
```
